HOW TO MAKE EFO RIRO By Ayobami Aborisade

Ingredients

Beef
Cow tripe (Shaki)
Cowskin (Ponmo)
Dry fish
Palm oil (20 cl)
Efo Shoko (500g)
Pepper mixtures(Red bell peppers, Scotch Bonnet peppers, chilli pepper)
2 tbsp ground crayfish
1½ Onions
Seasoning cubes
2 tbsp of locust beans (iru)
Salt

Before you start;

Wash and cut the vegetable into big chunk. Soak vegetable in hot water for about 3 minutes drain and set aside.
Wash locust beans and set aside.
Soak the dry fish till soft and debone.
Deseed the peppers and blend roughly.
Method

Start cooking the caw tripe on high heat with little water. When the cow tripe is almost done, add meat, chopped onions, salt and seasoning cube and continue cooking.
In another pot, pour the palm oil and heat it. Once hot, add the remaining onions and fry for 2 minutes.
Then add locust beans fry for a minute. Now pour your blended pepper mixture, and stir together. Add salt, seasoning cube and crayfish. Allow to cook for about 20 minutes.
Once the oil is floating at the top, add smocked fish, ponmo, and meats. Stir and taste for salt.
Add the vegetables to the sauce and stir very well, cover the pot and allow to cook for about 4 minutes. After some minutes, take the pot off the heat.
Your Efo riro is ready.


Ghana Jollof Rice


Ingredients
400g basmati rice
3 red peppers, halved and deseeded
1 white onion, halved
2 garlic cloves
1 tbsp grated ginger, or ginger purée
1 Scotch bonnet chilli, deseeded if you prefer less heat (optional)
5 tbsp vegetable or sunflower oil
100g tomato purée
2 bay leaves
1 tbsp dried thyme
2tsp curry powder (we used hot madras)
½ tsp ground white pepper
600ml hot chicken stock, made with 2 stock cubes

Method
STEP 1
Heat the oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6. Tip the rice in a sieve, rinse under cold water, drain and set aside. Put the peppers, onion, garlic, ginger and chilli, if using, in a food processor and blitz until chopped.

STEP 2
Heat the oil in an ovenproof casserole over a medium heat and fry the tomato purée for 2-3 mins, stirring often. Add the blitzed pepper mixture and fry for 5 mins more, then add the herbs, spices and 1 tsp salt. Fry for a further 1-2 mins, then stir in the rice to coat. Pour in the stock, stir, cover and bake for 45 mins until the rice is tender.

JOLLOF RECIPE

Ingredients

2 large yellow onions, roughly chopped
⅓ cup vegetable oil(80 mL), plus 2 tablespoons, divided
14 oz diced tomato(395 g), 2 cans
6 oz tomato paste(170 g), 1 can
1 habanero pepper
2 teaspoons curry powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
½ teaspoon mixed dried herbs
3 chicken bouillon cubes, crushed
2 ½ cups long grain rice(500 g), rinsed
1 cup frozen mixed vegetable(150 g)
1 ½ cups water(360 mL)

Preparation
Add onions and 2 tablespoons of oil to a blender and pulse until smooth. Transfer to a medium bowl.
Add the diced tomatoes, tomato paste, and habanero pepper to the blender, and pulse until smooth. Transfer to a separate medium bowl.
Heat the remaining ⅓ cup (80 ml) of oil in a large, heavy-bottomed pot over medium heat.
Once the oil is shimmering, add the onion puree and cook until the water has cooked out and the puree is starting to brown, about 10 minutes.
Stir in the tomato puree and add the curry powder, garlic powder, ginger, dried herbs, and crushed bouillon cubes. Cook for 20-30 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the stew has reduced by half and is deep red in color.
Add the rice, mixed vegetables, and water. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to low and cover the pot with foil and a lid. Simmer for another 30 minutes, until the rice is cooked through and the liquid is absorbed.
Enjoy!


MUTTON BIRYANI RECIPE

Ingredients for Gravy/Mchuzi

1 kg mutton, goat or lamb, on the bone, cut into pieces
500 gm onions, sliced then fried until golden
1 tbsp ginger paste
1 tbsp garlic paste
2 tbsp grated raw papaya (optional)
1 tsp red chilli powder
1-2 chopped green chillies
1 tsp cumin powder
pinch of cardamom powder
3 cinnamon sticks
4 cloves
2 tbsp lemon juice
250 ml yoghurt
2 pinches of saffron
2-3 cups hot water
1/2 cup oil
4 tbsp tomato paste/puree
2 fresh tomatoes, grated or blended
1 tsp turmeric
orange food colouring
5 potatoes, peeled and halved, then fried until a knife can pierce through easily

Ingredients for rice

3 cups(basmati rice/faduma rice), washed 2-3 times then soaked for half an hour
salt
saffron & food colouring(saffron is optional)
oil
whole spices

INSTRUCTIONS
gravy/Mchuzi

Clean the meat. Now in a bowl add meat, salt, ginger n garlic pastes, red chilli powder, chopped green chilli, half the fried onions, half the yoghurt, 2 tbsp. of the oil, cardamom powder, cumin powder, half of the tomato paste, raw papaya, turmeric powder, pinch of orange food colour, pinch of saffron and lemon juice. Mix it well then marinate overnight.
Heat the oil in a pressure cooker, then add the whole spices followed by the fresh tomatoes. Cook until the tomatoes are dry, then add half of the remaining fried onions (reserve a handful for later) and all of the remaining paste, yoghurt and saffron.
Cook together for a few minutes, then add the marinated mutton/lamb with its marinade. Let these simmer then add the hot water (it should completely cover the meat, so add more water if you find that the 2 cups aren’t enough) and cover the pressure cooker.
Cook for about 25 minutes on medium heat or until the meat is tender.
Once ready, add the fried potatoes, mix and simmer on very low heat for a few minutes for the potatoes to take on a good colour and for the masala to thicken and the oil to rise to the top. Sprinkle the remaining fried onions, then turn off the heat and set aside.

rice

Wash then soak 3 cups of rice in water for about 20-30 mins. Soak a few saffron strands in some water and set aside. Bring a big pot of water to boil, add salt, 4 cardamom pods, 2-3 cinnamon sticks and 2-3 cloves plus about 2 tbsp. of oil.
Drain the soaked rice and add it to this water when it is boiling. Cook until the rice is about 3/4 done, remove and strain out all the water.
Put half the rice back into the pan, drizzle about 2-3 tbsp. of oil and the saffron water. Then add the remainder of the rice.
Add a bit of orange colour on one side and mix it up a bit with a spoon then cover the pot tightly. Steam this on low heat for 15 minutes or put in a 180 C preheated oven for about the same time. Serve the rice with the Biryani Masala on top.

